This project aims to create a near real time, open-sourced dashboard to address the grievances faced during such emergencies. Its primary objective is to extract spatiotemporal data from social media platforms by using geoparsing tools like Mordecai 3.0 , categorize information based on sentiments, using predefined algorithms like NLTK, VADER,  Lexicon or other sentiment analyser, and present near real time insights through an interactive dashboard. 
Another key objective is to leverage open-source technologies, allowing for collaborative development, customized algorithms and tools tailored to fit situational requirements. This approach also ensures a cost-effective solution for municipalities to manage and mitigate disaster. 
The study area for this project will be in the Indian state of Kerala, particularly analysing the 2018 floods. During the months of August and September the state experienced highest record in rainfall ever, recording 256% higher than usual. Out of 54 dams in the state, 35 were opened, leading to widespread floods, landslides and destructions. Approximately 1 million people were left homeless and 483 people were reported dead. The loss caused by the flood were estimated upto Rs 20,000 million or 240 million USD(Varghese, n.d.). Traditional modes of communication were ineffective, prompted people in Kerala to use social media platforms asking for help. Citizen scientists and IT specialists from around the world used geoparsing to identify locations for relief operations. The Government of Kerala initiated hashtags like #OPMadad and #KeralaFloods for people needing rescue. This study aims to examine and test the proposed models, using these archival tweets, which HumanAid collected during this period. 
